## Motivation and Goals

The following email from Sue Zachmann, ScriptED's Director of Corporate
Partnerships, describes the scope of the project:

> We could use some coding help in our efforts to analyze the full extent
> of the potential market in NYC for our high school coding classes. We’d
> love to complete the first step of the project no later than early
> January. Step 2 and Step 3 have some additional timing flexibility.
>
> ## STEP 1
> 
> We’ve got a spreadsheet with data relating to some 200 NYC high schools.
> We’d like to automate a function that can return commute time via public
> transportation (or walking if faster) between a few core origin locations
> (say, Grand Central, Fulton Center and MetroTech in Brooklyn) and each of
> the 200 schools. The data is relatively static, so we won’t need to
> interact with this functionality on a day to day basis but will need to
> be able to relatively easily rerun if we add new schools to the
> spreadsheet or potentially add new origin points. 
> 
> ## STEP 2
>
> We’d like to build an interactive map that has a pin for each school
> showing the commute data from above, as well as some of the additional
> information from the schools spreadsheet (number of students, grades
> served, other STEM programs at the school etc.)
>
> ## STEP 3
>
> We’d like to overlay on the schools map some more pins reflecting high
> level data (which also lives in a spreadsheet) about some of the
> city’s bigger employers so that we can analyze if there are schools
> that are difficult to reach from the core locations but that still
> might be serviceable if we fostered a relationship with a nearby employer.

## Prerequisites

If all you want to do is play with existing data or work on the
web front-end, you don't really need anything aside from a web server
that serves the root of the repository as static files. If you don't
have one, consider using `python -m SimpleHTTPServer` or npm's
[http-server][].

If you want to update information about schools or origin locations,
however, you'll need node v0.10 or higher, as well as a Google developer
account.

Be sure to run `npm install` to install all of this project's dependencies.

## Data Files

The `data` directory contains the following **source files**:

* `data/nyc-school-addresses.csv` is a CSV export of the spreadsheet 
  provided by ScriptED.
* `data/origin-points.json` contains information about the origin locations
  (e.g. Grand Central, MetroTech).

The `data` directory also contains the following **generated files**,
which are created whenever various build scripts are run.

* `data/nyc-school-addresses.json` is a JSON version of the CSV export.
  It is generated by `bin/nyc-school-addresses.js`.
* `data/geocode-addresses.json` contains lat/long information about the
  origin points and schools. It is generated by `bin/geocode-addresses.js`.
* `data/transit-times.json` contains information about transit times from
  origin points to schools. It is generated by `bin/transit-times.js`.
* `data/transit-times.csv` contains information about transit times from
  origin points to schools, suitable for import into a spreadsheet
  program. It is generated by `bin/transit-times.js`.

### Rebuilding Generated Files

Whenever source files in the `data` directory are changed, you'll want
to rebuild the generated files:

1. If you haven't already done so, create a new project at the
   [Google Developer Console][] and give it access to the
   [Google Directions API][] and the [Google Geocoding API][].
2. Set the `GOOGLE_API_KEY` environment variable to the API key for your
   project.
3. Run `npm run build`.
4. Commit all changed files to the git repository.

<!-- Links -->

  [http-server]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/http-server
  [Google Developer Console]: https://code.google.com/apis/console/
  [Google Directions API]: https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/directions/
  [Google Geocoding API]: https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/geocoding/
